Bombardier’s Award-winning Global 7500 Business Jet Earns FAA Approval and Continues to Move Towards Entry-into-service this Year
Industry’s longest range business jet, the Global 7500 aircraft, is certified in a class of its own and will enter service at the end of this year
The only business jet that can connect New York to Hong Kong and Singapore to San Francisco, nonstop*
The Global 7500 aircraft offers not only Bombardier’s signature smooth ride but also superior field performance, perfect for operating from key challenging airports
MONTREAL, Nov. 07, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Bombardier is proud to announce that its flagship business jet, the Global 7500 aircraft, has received Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) certification, achieving another important milestone as it approaches entry-into-service later this year.
“This milestone is the latest accomplishment for our award-winning Global 7500 business jet, which has been exceeding expectations on every level,” said Michel Ouellette, Senior Vice President, Global 7500 and Global 8000 Program, Bombardier Business Aircraft.
“The Global 7500 business jet has proven itself as the highest-performing aircraft in the industry and promises to revolutionize the market and significantly change the business aviation landscape.”
“Obtaining the Global 7500 aircraft Type Certification from the FAA marks one of the final chapters in our very successful development program,” said Stephen McCullough, Bombardier’s Vice President of Integrated Product Development for the Global 7500 and Global 8000 Program.
“Achieving this latest milestone is a direct result of the commitment to excellence of the highly-skilled employees who worked on the program and our solid collaboration with our suppliers.”
Earlier this year, the Global 7500 aircraft demonstrated its ability to fly further than any other business jet by expanding its advertised range to 7,700 nautical miles, a full 300 nautical miles further than initial commitments.
It also exceeded takeoff and landing performance commitments, facilitating access to challenging airports such as Chicago Executive, MI or Eagle County, CO, even in adverse weather conditions.
These achievements have enabled the Global 7500 aircraft to push the boundaries of business travel by elevating the cabin experience all while resetting the bar for long-haul missions in the industry.
The Global 7500 aircraft is the only business jet that can connect New York to Hong Kong, and Singapore to San Francisco, nonstop.*
Upon entry into service, the Global 7500 aircraft will offer not only its signature smooth ride but also spaciousness that is unique among business jets, with its award-winning interior featuring a full-size kitchen and four true living spaces.
The Global 7500 aircraft also debuts Bombardier’s patented Nuage seat, which was meticulously designed for maximum comfort and will be exclusive to the new Global family of aircraft.
Setting the benchmark for the most exceptional business jet experience, these state-of-the-art features and the aircraft’s sophisticated styling contributed to the Global 7500 jet receiving a 2018 Red Dot Award for Product Design, one of the most sought-after honours for design and innovation excellence worldwide.
About Bombardier
With over 69,500 employees across four business segments, Bombardier is a global leader in the transportation industry, creating innovative and game-changing planes and trains.
Our products and services provide world-class transportation experiences that set new standards in passenger comfort, energy efficiency, reliability and safety.
Headquartered in Montreal, Canada, Bombardier has production and engineering sites in 28 countries across the segments of Transportation, Business Aircraft, Commercial Aircraft and Aerostructures and Engineering Services.
Bombardier shares are traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange (BBD). In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, Bombardier posted revenues of $16.2 billion.
News and information are available at bombardier.com or follow us on Twitter @Bombardier.
Notes to Editors
Follow @Bombardierjets on Twitter to receive the latest news and updates from 
Bombardier Business Aircraft.
To receive our press releases, please visit the RSS Feed section.
Bombardier, Global, Global 7500 and Nuage are registered or unregistered trademarks of Bombardier Inc. or its subsidiaries.
*Under certain operating conditions.
For Information
Clémence Godfroy
Bombardier Business Aircraft
+ 1 514-855-5001 #64024
clemence.godfroy@aero.bombardier.com
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/6314256c-b021-497d-a285-1b1a9d8b6552
